Welcome to **RattleNG** the *Next Generation of Rattle*
(https://rattle.togaware.com).

RattleNG (also known as Rattle Version 6) is the working name for a
new generation toolbox for data science, statistical analyses, data
visualisation ðŸ“Š, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. This
is a new version of the 20 year old Rattle, used extensively in
teaching and in industry world wide. The Rattle toolbox supports the
Data Scientist in turning their data into stories that will have
genuine business impact.

The new front end is implemented using [Flutter](https://flutter.dev)
with [R](https://r-project.org) as the back end, utilising many of the
original Rattle scripts. The scripts are being modernised to take
advantage of the latest developments in R. Please bear with us as we
modernise Rattle and you are most welcome to report any issues you
notice to [github](https://github.com/gjwgit/rattleng/issues) or even
to contribute code to the project.

> 

## Using Rattle

To get started, push the **Dataset** button to choose a data source,
and for a quick start press **Demo**. This loads a dataset consisting
of one year of observations from a weather station in Canberra that
you can use to explore Rattle's functionality.

You can instead load a **csv** (for structured data analysis,
including data mining) or **txt** (for unstructured data analysis
including text mining) file. The data contained in the file becomes
your dataset used throughout Rattle.

The major data analytics in Rattle is implemented through **R template
scripts**. The templates are run after their configurations are tuned
through the user interface. The updated template is then sent to **R**
to undertake the analysis. The results are presented through the
Rattle interface.

At any time, be sure to visit the **Script** tab to see the **R** code
that is automatically generated for you from all of your activity. You
can export the script, as `script.R` and it is then a standalone R
program you can run. Visit the Script tab for more details.

> 

## Dataset Variable Roles

Each variable in a dataset is identified with a **Role**. Most
variables will be identified as **Input** (or independent) variables,
used as the inputs to a model used to predict a **Target** (dependent)
variable. The Input variables are also those that can be selected for
visualising, etc.

Variables can also be identified as a so-called **Risk** variable (a
variable which is not used for modelling as such) or as **Ignore**
which are ignored completely for our purposes. The default role for
most variables is that of an Input (i.e., independent)
variable. Generally, these are the variables that will be used to
predict the value of a Target (or dependent) variable.

Any variable that has a unique value for each observation is
automatically identified as an **Ident** (identifier). Any number of
variables can be tagged as being an Ident. All Ident variables are
ignored when modelling.

Rattle uses simple heuristics to guess at the roles of variables. Most
are Input, one is identified as a Target, often the last variable or
another which is categoric with only a few distinct values.

> 

## Resources

Rattle is well covered in the book **Data Mining with Rattle and R**
(https://bit.ly/rattle_data_mining). The concept of R templates for
data science was introduced in **The Essentials of Data Science**
(https://bit.ly/essentials_data_science). Both books are available
from Amazon. The [Togaware Desktop Data Mining Survival
Guide](https://datamining.togaware.com) includes Rattle documentation
and is freely available from [Togaware](https://togaware.com).

Rattle is licensed ðŸªª under the [GNU General Public License, Version
3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html), making it free for
you to use for ever. Rattle comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.

Rattle, RattleNG, and the collection of R template scripts are
Copyright Â© 2006-2024 Togaware Pty Ltd. Rattle is a registered
trademark of Togaware Pty Ltd. Rattle was created and implemented by
Graham Williams with many contributions as acknowledged in the About
menu. To donate to the project please 

> 
